
The Obama administration said Tuesday it will ask the Supreme Court to save its plans to shield from deportation millions of immigrants living in the country illegally. The appeal advances a legal confrontation with 26 states during a presidential race already roiled by disputes over US immigration policy.
The 5th US Circuit Court of Appeals late Monday effectively blocked President Barack Obamas plan [executive action] to protect from deportation as many as 5 million [illegal] immigrants, primarily the immigrant parents of US citizens and legal permanent residents. It upheld a Texas-based federal judges earlier injunction. The ruling leaves in limbo the future of the program, called the Deferred Action for Parents and Americans [DAPA]. Democratic presidential front-runner Hillary  Clinton promised in May if elected to expand President Obamas executive actions if Congress does not overhaul U S immigration laws. In October she also pledged to be less harsh and aggressive than Obama in enforcing immigration laws.
The future of the estimated 11 million immigrants living in the country illegally has been debated by Republican and Democratic presidential candidates. Earlier this month Sen. Marco Rubio, R-Fla., said if elected he would eventually end Obamas Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals [DACA], which protects from deportation immigrants brought to the country illegally as children. DACA was seen as an administrative answer to the DREAM Act, legislation that would provide legal status to those young undocumented immigrants. To date, more than 720,000 young [illegal] immigrants have been granted permission to live and work legally in the U S under DACA.  That program is not affected by the appeals court ruling.
White House press secretary Josh Earnest said Tuesday the case was ultimately about the administrations authority to decide how to use its limited resources in immigration enforcement. Mondays 70-page ruling rejected administration arguments that the district court had abused its discretion with a nationwide order and that the states lacked standing to challenge Obamas executive orders.
The Court acknowledged that an adverse ruling would discourage potential beneficiaries of DAPA from cooperating with law enforcement authorities or paying taxes. Smith was appointed to the court by Republican President Ronald Reagan. In a 53-page dissent, Circuit Judge Carolyn Dineen King, who was appointed by Democratic President Jimmy Carter, said the administration was within the law. She cast the decision to defer action on some deportations as quintessential exercises of prosecutorial discretion and noted that the Homeland Security Department has limited resources.
Although there are approximately 11.3 million removable aliens in this country today, for the last several years Congress has provided the Department of Homeland Security with only enough resources to remove approximately 400,000 of those aliens per year,King wrote. Its unclear when the Justice Department will file its appeal or whether the high court would take up the case, but the administration may be running out of time to get a final decision before Obama leaves office in early 2017. While the appeal moves forward, not much will change for the millions of illegal immigrants Obama sought to help by going around Congress.
When Obama and Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson announced the Deferred Action for Parents of Americans (DAPA) program last year, they also rolled out a new set of priorities for immigration enforcement that focused on criminals, those who pose a threat to national security or public safety and recent border-crossers.



